## For this project, I plan to investigate the Astros' cheating scandal regarding their use of loud bangs on a trash can to signal to their batters what pitch was coming next. Here're some popular questiona regarding this scandal:
  
1. What was the usual outcome of a batting event when a bang was heard (single, double, home run, or grand slam)?

2. Was the number of bangs different for each opponent or were they more heavily used against better opposition? 

3. At what point in the season did the number of bangs substantially increase? 

The main goal focuses on learning as much about the Astros' cheating scandal as possible. This ranged from looking at how they used the bangs on the trash cans to whether it actually had an impact on what happened in the game. This culminated in the aim of this project -- to determine if the Astros' cheating made a difference in whether they won or lost a given game.

# Below are steps that builds up my project:

### Step 1:
I found a data set (from Data is Plural) that contained detailed information about pitches from the Astros' home games (the cheating only happend at home in Houston) in 2017 (this is the only year they are known to have cheated). This data set had information on every pitch thrown in most of these home games from 2017. Each pitch had information about the batter, what pitch was thrown, the outcome of the pitch, where base runners were located, and whether there were audible bangs heard before the pitch. The data set also contained information about the game date, the opponent, and the final score. We were then able to split the data set into two seperate parts, one with all of the pitches with corresponding bangs, and the other with all of the pitches without bangs. This allowed us to explore the differences between the two and discover what was really happening with the cheating. We also used two extra data sets about the Astros' schedule from 2017 and the MLB standings from 2017. These data sets included extra variables about the individual games and opponents from the season that helped us in our exploration and modeling.

  After all of our work, we were able to learn a lot about the details and impact of the Astros' cheating scandal. First, we saw that a high percentage of the bangs occured on pitches identified as breaking balls. We also saw that the usage of banging generally increased throughout the season. After this, we were able to determine that the Astros did not seem to use bangs in more importatnt game moments, including both base running and late inning situations. It also did not appear that the Astros used the banging to benefit their best players more than anyone else. From our discoveries, there may have been a slight trend to use the cheating against better teams, but it is not super convincing. The Astros also did not appear to cheat at a higher rate against the teams in their division, the most important competition for them to beat in order to secure a playoff spot. Lastly, when comparing the results of pitches and at bats with bangs versus those without bangs, there did not appear to be much of a difference in the outcome. All of this seems to suggest that the Astros were not leveraging the use of bangs in the situations when it theoretically would have helped them the most. It also seems to suggest that when they did decide to use the bangs, it may not have really helped them that much.
